That is why it is called a seed word.

The element wind, Mañjuśrī, is a seed word.” [Mañjuśrī] said: “Why is it a seed word?” [The
Lord] said: “All moments of existence are unattached, Mañjuśrī, and they are unhindered, since
they are really immovable and completely freed, and the way of the wind is something
apart, and has no substance and no characteristics. That is why it is called a seed word.

The Buddha, Mañjuśrī, is a seed word.” [Mañjuśrī] said: “Why is it a seed word?” [The Lord]
said: “All moments of existence are not becoming awake, Mañjuśrī, not awakened, not awakened
in accordance with anything, not perfectly awakened, and something apart from any Awakening.
That is why it is called a seed word.

Dharma, Mañjuśrī, is a seed word.” [Mañjuśrī] said: “Why is it a seed word?” [The Lord] said:
“All moments of existence are undifferentiated, Mañjuśrī, and undivided, free of division
and beyond distinctions, without name, without distinguishing marks, without characteristics,
without essence and completely transcending the ways of speech. That is why it is called
a seed word.

Saṃgha, Mañjuśrī, is a wedge word.” [Mañjuśrī] said: “Why is it a wedge word?” [The Lord] said:
“The Saṃgha is well established, Mañjuśrī, in the suchness of the sphere of all moments
of existence and of the limit of existence, it is well established in the sameness of good
and bad morality, in the sameness of concentration and distraction, in the sameness of
insight and bad insight, in the sameness of liberation and impurity; it is well established
among all moments of existence because of not apprehending objectively any place or non-place.
That is why it is called a wedge word.

All moments of existence, Mañjuśrī, are beyond any sphere: this is a wedge word.” [Mañjuśrī]
said: “Why is it a wedge word?” [The Lord] said: “All moments of existence, Mañjuśrī, are
[like] the sphere of space, an unthinkable sphere, a non-sphere, cut of from any sphere,
non-existent, beyond any sense-perception since not differentiated. That is why it is called
a wedge word.

All moments of existence, Mañjuśrī, have no objective existence: this is a wedge word.” [Mañjuśrī]
said: “Why is it a wedge word?” [The Lord] said: “All moments of existence, Mañjuśrī,
are established nowhere, they have a basis in nothing, they are neither dependent nor rest
on any cause since they are dissociated from any objective cause; they are not associated
in any single or multiple aggregate. That is why it is called a wedge word.

All moments of existence, Mañjuśrī, are indestructible: this is a wedge word.” [Mañjuśrī] said:
“Why is it a wedge word?” [The Lord] said: “All moments of existence, Mañjuśrī, cannot
be seen, they are without form since they cannot be seen, they cannot be broken and they
cannot be crushed, they can also not be attained and adhered to, since they cannot be liberated.
That is why it is called a wedge word.

All moments of existence, Mañjuśrī, are ungraspable: this is a wedge word.” [Mañjuśrī] said:
“Why is it a wedge word?” [The Lord] said: “All moments of existence, Mañjuśrī, belong to
the sphere of moments of existence; they cannot be done away with, and cannot be grasped,
are completely free of wishful thinking, are essentially peaceful and the same as or similar
to open space. That is why it is called a wedge word.

All moments of existence, Mañjuśrī, are stainless, this is a wedge word.” [Mañjuśrī] said: “Why
is it a wedge word?” [The Lord] said: “All moments of existence, Mañjuśrī, are unblemished,
they are nothing at all, pure, brilliant, very pure because purified like open space,
and they are without vices, because the vices are not real objects. That is why it is called
a wedge word.”

The bodhisattva who accuses someone by pointing out his mistakes is far from Awakening; he rather
incurs hindrances of actions.The bodhisattva who accuses someone by means of contempt
for certain practices is far from Awakening.The bodhisattva who accuses someone by means
of a certain behaviour is far from Awakening.If one produces a low opinion with regard to
another bodhisattva and a great opinion of himself, then he injures himself, and incurs hindrances
of actions.When a bodhisattva teaches or instructs another bodhisattva, he should
rather have an opinion of this bodhisattva as his teacher, and in that way he should teach
and instruct him.A bodhisattva should never produce a contemptuous attitude in the company
of another bodhisattva, that is, if he does not want to give up Awakening.Son of a god,
a bodhisattva never cuts off his roots of good by relating to another bodhisattva in the
way mentioned.

Then the earth opened itself for the bodhisattva Jayamati; he died and fell down into the Great
Hell.

