Leader of unbounded fame, teach us about the moments of existence which are selfless, without
a life principle and without a personality. This excellent congregation, so great, is peaceful,
eminently and deeply peaceful.

How can viewpoints be Awakening, how can conceit, aversion and jealousy? How can the essence
of passion be Awakening, teach us, leader of unbounded fame!

Where there is no nirvāṇa, flawless one, how can the sphere of conditioned things be Awakening?
Compassionate and victorious, explain in words how moments of existence are beyond duality.

You, who are boundlessly free, how can the moments of existence be like nirvāṇa, like freedom;
how can a [person] be like space, not attached in any attachment, not bound anywhere?

You have the voice of the Kalaviṃka bird, your speech is like that of Brahmā, and that of the
Gods; you are unblemished light, with a colour like gold; you who are pure splendour with
infinite fualities, teach us, sage, the infinite state of things.

How is Awakening the same as the hindrances; how can passion be the essence of Awakening? And
how are truth and untruth really of one principle, pure and unblemished, like the wind?

How can the moments of existence be extinguished where there is no reasoning, nor non-reasoning?
How can there be no omniscience where there is no Awakening, O faultless one?

Activity and non-activity are non-causes. As for grasping nor non-grasping, neither of them
exist. Living beings never exist there, because there is no physical basis to be found among
the dharmas.

How can it be that there is never immorality where there is no morality and no tolerance? How
can we find neither ignorance nor knowledge where there is no meditation or insight?

How can the moments of existence be unblemished and pure, being nothing in particular like wind?
How can moments of existence be without thinking, never thought and nowhere clinging?

How can being be like the sphere of space where there is nowhere comprehension, no cultivation,
no realization and nowhere renunciation?

theach us about this state of things where the moments of existence are in accordance with the
one principle, where there is indeed no activity and no origination anywhere!

Where there is no disciple, no arhat or isolated buddha, where no-one takes up the fuest for
Awakening, and there is no coming and going of moments of existence,

where there is no remaining, no stability, nor any subject of going or coming, no moments of
existence come or gone anywhere, with stable stillness in a state which is one and the same,

where there is no concept and no form, how can Awakening have form as its essence? How can there
a be non-duality of form and Awakening? thell us about this state of things, Victorious
One!

Where there is no Buddha and no teaching, where there is nowhere a congregation, how can those
Buddhas, the teaching and the congregations be of one principle?

Where it is not empty or without distinguishing marks, neither clinging nor non-clinging, neither
a name nor not a name, how can a moment of existence be like an echo, resembling a sound
in the mountains?

How is it that all moments of existence are of one principle, O faultless one, where there is
no origination, no non-origination, no nirvāṇa and no round of rebirth,

where there are no gods, no snake gods, no centaurs and no demons, no hell at all, nor states
of existence?

The precious dharma which you, our leader, are expounding, and that spoken by the evil ascetics,
how can those two be of one principle, how can there be only one entrance to all syllables?

Then the Lord praised the bodhisattva, the Great Being Siṃhavikrāntagāmin:Good, very good, son
of good family! Your fuestion is wonderful, even to the point of being contradictory to
the interests of the world.The world with its gods may even fall into confusion. So enough
of your posing fuestions in this way.This is not a field for bodhisattvas at the beginning
of their practice, who have naive views on emptiness, naive views on the absence of distinguishing
marks, on the absence of wishful thinking and non-origination, on non-existence,
absence of characteristics, naive views on nirvāṇa, the Buddha and Awakening.This teaching
of dharma should not be propounded to bodhisattvas at the beginning of their practice.And
why is that?They will not be provided with any roots for the good, their Awakening will
be far away, and they will fall into discontinuity and eternalism, and they will not know
that the Tathāgata teaches the dharma with certain hidden intentions.

