When this had been said, the Lord spoke to the bodhisattva Great Being Siṃhavikrāntagāmin:Very
good, be recollected and concentrate yourself, then I will tell you about those things.I
will,the bodhisattva Great Being Siṃhavikrāntagāmin answered,and then on that occasion,
the Lord spoke these verses:

The one who seeks Awakening does not construct passion and aversion; all moments of existence
have the essence of passion, and the one who knows that emerges as the Victorious One.

He does not apprehend passion, or aversion; he does not ever apprehend delusion; he sees all
moments of existence like empty space: the one who knows them thus emerges as the Victorious
One.

Views and non-views are both of one principle; attachment and non-attachment are similarly the
same: thus there is no Buddha, religion or congregation. The one who knows that becomes
wise.

Some beings think of Awakening and the Buddha, and of educating beings. But these are just like
images in a dream, since there is no Awakening, nor any being. All these moments of existence
have that essence.

Awakening is not a refuge that can be attained, what is not found can never be found, knowledge
and ignorance are really of the same principle: the one who knows that emerges as the
Victorious One.

Awakening is the essence of living beings, as I have said, and the essence of Awakening are
these living beings; there is no duality between living beings and Awakening: the one who
knows that becomes the greatest of men.

This is just like a man who has learnt to produce illusions and can create forms through many
sorts of illusions; even though they appear, there is nothing in them, but deluded persons
can even count them.

phassion and aversion should certainly be seen as illusion; thus each of the vices is an illusion.
The naive may say that they are impassioned and enraged, but they are deluded and sink
down into the evil states of existence.

Where the pair of passion and aversion is not found, where there is never any delusion, there
the naive burn in the fire of vices, after constructing [these vices] out of a state of
things which is just like an illusion.

Where no vice and no living being is found, there are also never any Buddhas; but after constructing
moments of existence which are unborn, the naive say they are going to be Buddhas.

There is no Buddha, and there is no religion of the Buddha. The one who has never known living
beings, and who has seen the state of things to be like empty space, he will soon be the
greatest of all beings.

For the one who seeks Awakening there is no Awakening; for him Awakening is as far away as heaven
is from earth. But the one who knows that the state of things is like an illusion, he
will soon be the greatest of all beings.

One who mentally constructs morality has no morality; the one who only sees morality is without
morality: broken morality and morality have the same essential characteristic; the one
who knows that becomes the Lord.

It is just as when some man is inflamed by passion in his dreams and has the experience of pleasure;
he constructs a female because of being posessed by delusion, but there is of course
no woman there.

Broken morality as well as morality have the essence of a dream, and naive people construe them
as a duality; really there is neither broken morality nor morality there: the one who
knows that becomes the greatest of men.

Those with the intelligence of the naive are attached to names, they do not know the true nature
of words; but those who understand names as non-names will attain the excellent power
of tolerance.

Many living beings take the vow to reach Awakening, and they communicate it to others with words.
But there is no spiritual progress in clinging to purity by means of words; these people
obscure Awakening.

They are obsessed by errors of behaviour; they are ignorant, finding their only pleasure in
words and sayings; they do not understand the essence of moments of existence; through the
purity of words they are not going to attain Awakening.

They talk about the emptiness of moments of existence; they are happy with their polemics and
have a hateful mind through their strife; without a promise they have a mind full of aversion,
so where are their Buddha-qualities, where is their Awakening?

The pair of aversion and tolerance are essentially of one principle; knowing that one renounces
aggression; by not knowing the essence of living beings, the mentally naive produce aggression.

Their own words are: I have love for all beings, I am the Victorious and will save all!But even
by such talk they produce aversion, and through their negative mental attitude they cannot
stick to their words.

They are happy with strife and seek only the errors of others, even though they always praise
tolerance; they say all moments of existence are emptiness, but with arrogance and conceit
they only seek out the mistakes of others.

They are attached to eating and bound by the evil of ignorance; day and night they think of
the pleasure of the senses, and, going to places of assembly, to towns and villages, they
say they will save many beings.

I have compassion for all beings, I always think of the good of the world!But with minds which
are really full of aversion their speech entails only harm.

Harmfulness and compassion are basically one, their existence has never been seen or heard of;
but even the ones who get angry with each other wish to come to the land of Amitāyus.

This would rather be the place of attaining beating and fuarrels as much as the river Gaṅ gā
has grains of sand; they will not become victorious and reach the land of the Buddhas when
not cultivating absolute tolerance.

Those who know that such a land is really a no-land and that all lands have the essence of empty
space, those who have no conceit because of their Buddha-land fualities, they go to such
a land as a Bull (vṛṣabha).

I have tolerance for everybody who does harm to me, I treat the adherents of the Victorious
as my teachers,they say, I have never before seen or heard anything like this. But really
they are full of aggression towards those who should be understood as teachers.

They are attached to the centres of teaching as well as those of pleasure, and they try to damage
each other’s practice: This person is destined to be educated by me, no one must go
to him,they say.

No one is like me, that [other teacher] does not have a pure practice,they say. śuch ignorant
people will not reach Awakening, in them is nothing beneficial.

But the one who bows his head to bodhisattvas thrice in the night and the same in the day, he
does not look for any mistake of theirs, he does his practice always in an acceptable way.

Whenever he sees someone enjoying the sense-objects, he does not find any wrong in that; [but
thinks] this one will in time reach the good, the excellent practice for Awakening which
is infinite in its fualities.

By the gradual path of logic and the gradual path of action he becomes a Conqueror, not, indeed,
by a single word; he attains this after wearing the armour of a bodhisattva for many
millions of world ages, in no other way.

dho not mentally construct passion, do not construe it as dualistic. ṛather, see Awakening as
the essence of passion; because in it there are no vices, nor will there be; for the one
who believes this, tolerance is not difficult to attain.

One should see all words as non-words, thus one should understand the moments of existence as
free of syllables; believing in such a state of things there will be no passion and aversion,
and no delusion.

śee Awakening and passion as the same, know them as non-existent and beyond language; they exist
only because of their names; in sayings, consisting of syllables, there is nothing.

[One who] knows all sounds to be one sound, for him there will never be any differentiation;
what I have preached and what those heterodox [teachers] preach, their true state of things
is attained in the same way.

These moments of existence are expressed by the sounds of words, but these moments of existence
and the words cannot be apprehended; the one who understands the states of things as of
one principle, he will obtain the incomparable tolerance of moments of existence.

dho not mentally construct tolerance, do not construe it as dualistic, do not mentally construct
passion, do not construe it as dualistic; he who always knows that this pair is unborn
will be a leader of the world.

As much sand there is in the Gaṅ gā rivers in all the directions, south, north, east and west,
[if each living being were to take up each grain of sand, and then,] if there were that
many endless universes, and these were all filled with jewels and one offered these as a
gift [to the victorious Buddhas] for a period of hundreds of thousands of [endless] world
ages, even greater than this [would be the limitless merit of] the one who hears [this sūtra].

As for the one who seeks Awakening, when he has adopted the monastic life here, I will place
this sūtra at his disposal. The one who teaches this pure sūtra, he will very soon attain
the incomparable highest tolerance.

He will master the arts of memory without difficulty, and he will retain a hundred thousand
times a million of sūtras; he will attain eloquence and acute intelligence, he becomes an
opener knowing things difficult to open.

He thus attains unlimited special knowledge, the Buddhas give him eloquence, and they make the
illustrious jewel of this immeasurable sūtra shine upon him to give him eloquence.

